Add information about dbt-singlestore adapter (#1044)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/warehouse-profiles/singlestore-profile.md

---
title: "SingleStore Profile"
---

:::info Vendor-supported plugin

Certain core functionality may vary. If you would like to report a bug, request a feature, or contribute, you can check out the linked repository and open an issue.

:::

## Overview of dbt-singlestore

**Maintained by:** SingleStore, Inc.  
**Source:** [Github](https://github.com/memsql/dbt-singlestore)  
**Core version:** v1.0.0 and newer  
**dbt Cloud:** Not Supported  
**dbt Slack channel:** [Slack](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C02V2QHFF7U)  
**SingleStore version:** v7.5 and newer  

## Installation and Distribution

SingleStore dbt adapter is managed in its own repository, [dbt-singlestore](https://github.com/memsql/dbt-singlestore). You can use `pip` to install the SingleStore adapter:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```zsh
```

pip install dbt-singlestore
```

> Alternatively, you can clone the repository contents to a folder, and run `pip install .` from it. For other information including support of dbt features by SingleStore, see the [GitHub README](https://github.com/memsql/dbt-singlestore#readme).

Reviewer: If there indeed is other configuration, beyond profile set up, we prefer that it lives on this docs site instead of the dbt-singlestore's README

```suggestion
Alternatively, you can install the package from GitHub with:
    ```zsh
    pip install git+https://github.com/memsql/dbt-singlestore.git
    ```
For other information including support of dbt features by SingleStore, see the [GitHub README](https://github.com/memsql/dbt-singlestore#readme).
```

## Set up a SingleStore Target

> SingleStore targets should be set up using the following configuration in your `profiles.yml` file.

Reviewer: may I suggest that there's a description of the each profile key like dbt-firebolt has done?
https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/warehouse-profiles/firebolt-profile#description-of-firebolt-profile-fields

<File name='~/.dbt/profiles.yml'>

```yaml
singlestore:
  target: dev
  outputs:
    dev:
      type: singlestore
      host: [hostname]
      port: [port number]

>       user: [user]

Reviewer 2: Should this be username?

Reviewer: yes, unless they make `user` a synonym of `username`
```suggestion
      username: [user]
```

Reviewer: yes, unless they make `user` a synonym of `username`
```suggestion
      username: [user]
```

Author: changed to `user` in adapter

      password: [password]
      schema: [schema/database name]
      threads: [1 or more]  
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we add instructions on how to find the connection information? Just to show that it's on the connect to your cluster section and all the information is under the SQL IDE tab?

Author: done, thanks for suggestion!

</File>

## Notes

> When you run `dbt docs serve`, you would see `null` under "Database" -> "Tables and Views". This happens because "database" and "schema" denote the same object in SingleStore, so dbt's `database` is set to be always `NULL`. You need to click on `null` to see the actual SingleStore database(s) which has been specified as the `schema` in your project.

Reviewer: perhaps this is a reason to do as I suggest to change the Quote policy and have the schema be `NULL` but the database be what is rendered. (https://github.com/memsql/dbt-singlestore/issues/2 suggestion 3)

Author: yes, this used to be really confusing. `schema` can't be `NULL` however, so we'll suggest to use it as a prefix.

---
title: "SingleStore Profile"
---

:::info Vendor-supported plugin

Certain core functionality may vary. If you would like to report a bug, request a feature, or contribute, you can check out the linked repository and open an issue.

:::

## Overview of dbt-singlestore

**Maintained by:** SingleStore, Inc.  
**Source:** [Github](https://github.com/memsql/dbt-singlestore)  
**Core version:** v1.0.0 and newer  
**dbt Cloud:** Not Supported  
**dbt Slack channel:** [Slack](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C02V2QHFF7U)  
**SingleStore version:** v7.5 and newer  

## Installation and Distribution

SingleStore dbt adapter is managed in its own repository, [dbt-singlestore](https://github.com/memsql/dbt-singlestore). You can use `pip` to install the SingleStore adapter:

```zsh
pip install dbt-singlestore
```

Alternatively, you can install the package from GitHub with:

```zsh
pip install git+https://github.com/memsql/dbt-singlestore.git
```

For other information including support of dbt features by SingleStore, see the [GitHub README](https://github.com/memsql/dbt-singlestore#readme). 

> ### Set up a SingleStore Target

Reviewer 2: Can this be renamed to SingleStore profile?

| `schema`                 | Yes | The string to prefix the names of generated tables if `generate_alias_name` macro is added (see below). |
| `threads`                | No | The number of threads available to dbt. |

## Schema and Concurrent Development

SingleStore doesn't have a concept of `schema` that corresponds to one used in `dbt` (namespace within a database). `schema` in your profile is required for `dbt` to work correctly with your project metadata. For example, you will see it on "dbt docs" page, even though it's not present in the database.

In order to support concurrent development, `schema` can be used to prefix table names that `dbt` is building within your database. In order to enable this, add the following macro to your project. This macro will take the `schema` field of your `profiles.yml` file and use it as a table name prefix.

```sql
-- macros/generate_alias_name.sql
{% macro generate_alias_name(custom_alias_name=none, node=none) -%}
    {%- if custom_alias_name is none -%}
        {{ node.schema }}__{{ node.name }}
    {%- else -%}
        {{ node.schema }}__{{ custom_alias_name | trim }}
    {%- endif -%}
{%- endmacro %}
```

> Therefore, if you set `schema=some_id` in your `.dbt/profiles.yml` file and run the `customers` model with the corresponding profile, `dbt` will create a table named `some_id__customers` in your database.

Reviewer 2: Could you use `dev` rather than `some_id`? It would be helpful to state why one would like to do this such as understand the part of the workflow the object was created during.

Author: makes sense, updated the doc

> Therefore, if you set `schema=dev` in your `.dbt/profiles.yml` file and run the `customers` model with the corresponding profile, `dbt` will create a table named `dev__customers` in your database.

Reviewer 2: After adding the macro to project, I just realized that this also automatically affects any seeds references. Could you add in a caveat about that?

Author: not sure I understand - in `jaffle_shop` I've added the macro, then `dbt seed && dbt run && dbt test && dbt docs generate && dbt docs serve` was running fine without further changes, in which scenario seeds are affected?

Reviewer 2: Ah, it appears this only shows up if you have already executed the seed without the macro. I'm closing this out because its more of a edge case
